- [Instructor] Java developers must understand
the new release cadence
because it influences important decisions
regarding the development
and maintenance of Java applications.
Before Java nine and the new cadence,
the JDK was released pretty inconsistently,
with an average of 879 days between releases.
With the new six month release cadence.
It introduced a period where Java
has evolved more rapidly and consistently.
After this change releases have consistently
occurred on average every 181 days.
At first, this pace may sound overwhelming,
but don't worry,
there's a strategy behind the new cadence
and ways to navigate it.
The new cadence is centered around the concept
of feature releases that are delivered every six months.
These releases will be supported for six months
receiving quarterly updates for critical security patches
and bug fixes.
Every three years,
a release will be deemed a long term support release
or LTS for short.
LTS releases will receive support past
the next long term support release,
providing developers time
to make the migration to the next LTS version.
A major benefit of this strategy
is that it creates a predictable cadence
for Java developers.
And it ships new language features faster
than the historical approach.
So when we plot the roadmap for the next few years,
this is how it looks.
We see feature releases every six months,
and then every six releases
are roughly three years in LTS release.
At the moment, Java 11 is the latest LTS release,
making it a target for the majority
of Java developers currently using JDK eight.
The next LTS release would be Java 17
arriving around September 2021.
You'll notice the overlap between Java 11 and Java 17,
which provides a nice migration window.
Ultimately, developers will have to choose
between two strategies.
There's a minor migration strategy,
or you can take the LTS strategy.
If you choose the minor migration strategy,
you'll migrate to the new release every six months
and be able to use the new language features
and benefit from any performance enhancements immediately.
Additionally, you will receive quarterly updates
for security patches.
If you choose the LTS strategy,
the rate of change will be lower
and you will migrate Java versions about every three years.
Sticking to LTS releases will most likely
be the preferred strategy for many enterprises
with large investments in Java.
It is important to understand
these points when making your choice,
because It will lead you to the path
best suited for your situation.
The release cadence is an important migration consideration,
but not the only one.
We'll discuss those in an upcoming lesson.